Ways of playing Náttúruval.

This is a game for 2-12 people (*needs playtesting with more seriousness) and there are a number of ways to play it. (*I hesitate to say some one main game, I'd rather say main game for different demographics? like pictures of three types of groups like with club penguin https://ih1.redbubble.net/image.820809859.8058/flat,1000x1000,075,f.jpg, so like groupPastel, groupNeon and groupMutedGreys or soomthing)

1. Main game for groupA draw one card each and pick a player to throw the dice, determine the one player that is the winner, discard all the cards and each player draws one card. The player that won last round gets to throw the dice (or before drawing choose a category).

2. Main game for groupB each player draws five cards, one player throws the dice and then all players put, face down, a card that they think is a contender for that category (they do not have to put down their highest or lowest in that category if they want to keep it for any reason). Determine the winner and that person keeps their winning card face up on the table in front of them, if there is a tie the dice are thrown again an the tying cards compete again with different dice results. When the deck has been exhausted the player with the most cards in front of them wins. If there is still a tie, throw the dice again and each player chooses from their spoils a card to compete with, if they tie with those first chosen spoil cards the dice are thrown again until a winner is determined.

3. Main game for groupC is a subjective improv party game where an accompanying booklet (or webapp) provides players for prompts for each round. The game is played by each player drawing one card, then going around each player makes their case as to why their animal (or they themselves if the group is up for rola playing) is actually most fitting of the prompt. After every player has made their case, the players then determine the winner. The winner gets to keep their winning card in front of them face up. Players vote at the same time either by handing that player their card or by pointing and shouting. The cards are then discarded and everyone gets one card again, the person to the left of the last player to start starts the next round. When the deck is exhausted the player with the most spoils wins. If there is a tie break it by giving the contenders one prompt and they have to choose one card from their spoils and sway the audience.

4. Other games fitting for groupA
4.1. use only the plus minus die and each player draws one card, only judging by the pictures players can determine which animal is bigger or smaller, then then get to keep the winner.
4.2. place three cards, in the middle where every player can readily see the text, throw the dice and the player who is the quickest to find the applicable card gets to keep it. Only replace the one card that was taken. If multiple cards tie, all of them must be taken away and more than one player can take cards, replace the ones taken. The winner is the player with the most cards wins.
4.3. Like game 4.2 but it is a co operative version against time.

5. Other games fitting for groupB
5.1 Each player gets as many cards as there ar players, determine player one. That player gets to decide a category and +/- and then puts down a card face down, each other player does the same. Determine the winner, if there is a tie the dice are used to break it, the player that wins places the winning card in front of them face up. When the cards are exhausted the player who played the last card gets to start the next round. When the deck is exhausted the winner is determined, if there is a tie the dice are used to break it and the players can use any card from their spoils.
5.2 *seven questions* duel - make a smaller deck of 20 cards or so. Each player gets one card, they take turns giving up one statistic or the scientific name and guessing the card. When a player guesses correctly they get to keep the card and the other player draws a new one, this is a race to guess quicker than the opponent. When the deck is exhausted determine the winner, if there is a tie shake hands and revel in the matched wits and if that isn't satisfying each player draws a card and that becomes the ultimate duel.
5.3. Each player draws one card without looking at it they place it on their forhead so that other players can clearly see it. Determine a starting player, they then choose a category and +/- that they think their card that they can't see can compete and then each player looks at their card and a winner is determined, if there is a tie throow the die. The winner keeps their winning card in front of them, the game is over when the deck is exhausted. If there is a tie throw the dice and the tying players choose a card from their spoils to compete with. 
5.4 The never ending nonsense: dived the deck equally among player, each player reveals the top card and the dice are thrown, the winner gets to put the spoils at the bottom of their deck, if there is a tie the competing players draw an additional card and keep playing that same category. The game ends when the players with the smaller decks finally give up or when one player has all the cards.

6. Other games fitting for groupC
6.1 Cucumber: First decide the category that will be played for the remaining rounds (and if its +/-, lets assume it's + for this explanation). Then each player gets 10 cards. Each turn is played like this; the starting player places a card in the middle, then in clockwise order each player has to put down a card with equal or higher value, if they can't they have to put down their lowest card in that category. Each player has to put out one card on each turn and the player to play the highest card starts the next round. The last turn has players only with one card, the highest value card is the losing card and the player keeps it in front of them as penalty points. Next round is played with 9 cards, the player to start that round is on the left hand side of the player who started the round before. The last round has players only with one card and after that the penalty cards are added up for the loser. Everybody else is a winner.



